README.md, before:

Repo for studying boosted Higgs tools with the RA2b trees.  This package relies on another package for setting up some basic 
classes to facilitate some things.  

#General Stuff:

#### Setting up the code:
<pre>
cmsrel CMSSW_7_4_2
cd CMSSW_7_4_2/src/
cmsenv
git clone https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET.git
</pre>

NEEDS UPDATING

#### Compiling:

NEEDS UPDATING
 
#### Batch:

Before submitting any batch jobs, be sure to retar your working area and copy it into the <code>src/</code> directory.

<pre>
bash makeTar.sh        
</pre>

NEEDS UPDATING -- ALSO NEEDS CODE TO STREAMLINE BATCH SUBMISSION

Example:
<pre>
---
</pre>

#### Things to run

- MC plots of signal region -- minus data: `plotObs_baseline.cc`, `plotObs_doubleHiggsTag.cc`, `plotObs_antitag.cc`

- MC plots of top/W enriched control region (with data): `plotObs_singleMuCR_baseline.cc`, 

#### Region descriptions/definitions

Baseline selections are defined for the signal region and for each of the validation regions. Broadly, they require two AK8 jets with transverse momentum above ... 

#### Comparisons of ABCD predictions

To access the consistency between data/MC predicitons, yields from data and MC are compared in each of the ABCD regions.  Scale factors are also derived from these plots.  In region A, the observed yeild in data is compared to the prediction from data.  To reproduce these plots, first create histograms:

see code `ALPHABET.cc` -- [here](https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET/blob/RA2b_V12_v0/src/ALPHABET.cc) 

Then to produce plots and scale factors, see code `checkScaleFactors.cc` -- [here](https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET/blob/RA2b_V12_v0/src/checkScaleFactors.cc)

Because photons need to be cleaned from AK8 jets, there is a dedicated piece of code to create histograms for checking ABCD yields in the photon control region. This is something that needs to be improved to avoid mistakes due to upkeep costs. The code is `ALPHABET_photon.cc` -- [here]()

Commit message:

adding some instructions for ABCD closure in validation regions and b-hadron flavor fits.

README.md, after:

Repo for studying boosted Higgs tools with the RA2b trees.  This package relies on another package for setting up some basic 
classes to facilitate some things.  

#General Stuff:

#### Setting up the code:
<pre>
cmsrel CMSSW_7_4_2
cd CMSSW_7_4_2/src/
cmsenv
git clone https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET.git
</pre>

NEEDS UPDATING

#### Compiling:

NEEDS UPDATING
 
#### Batch:

Before submitting any batch jobs, be sure to retar your working area and copy it into the <code>src/</code> directory.

<pre>
bash makeTar.sh        
</pre>

NEEDS UPDATING -- ALSO NEEDS CODE TO STREAMLINE BATCH SUBMISSION

Example:
<pre>
---
</pre>

#### Things to run

- MC plots of signal region -- minus data: `plotObs_baseline.cc`, `plotObs_doubleHiggsTag.cc`, `plotObs_antitag.cc`

- MC plots of top/W enriched control region (with data): `plotObs_singleMuCR_baseline.cc`, 

#### Region descriptions/definitions

Baseline selections are defined for the signal region and for each of the validation regions. Broadly, they require two AK8 jets with transverse momentum above 300 GeV and mass between 50 and 250 GeV, MET>300 GeV, HT>600 GeV, the usual deltaPhi cut, and the usual event filters.  

There are also 3 validation regions defined: low deltaPhi -- QCD enriched, single photon -- proxy for Z(nn), and a single lepton control region -- W/top enriched. 

For the signal region, and each of the validation regions, a function is defined in `definitions.cc` to specify all of the cuts applied: [signal region function](https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET/blob/RA2b_V12_v0/src/definitions.cc#L665-L687), [photon validation region function](https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET/blob/RA2b_V12_v0/src/definitions.cc#L789-L853), [low deltaPhi validation region function](https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET/blob/RA2b_V12_v0/src/definitions.cc#L749-L770), [single muon validation region function](https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET/blob/RA2b_V12_v0/src/definitions.cc#L689-L718), [single electron validation region function](https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET/blob/RA2b_V12_v0/src/definitions.cc#L720-L747).

#### Comparisons of ABCD predictions

To access the consistency between data/MC predicitons, yields from data and MC are compared in each of the ABCD regions.  Scale factors are also derived from these plots.  In region A, the observed yeild in data is compared to the prediction from data.  To reproduce these plots, first create histograms:

see code `ALPHABET.cc` -- [here](https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET/blob/RA2b_V12_v0/src/ALPHABET.cc) 

Then to produce plots and scale factors, see code `checkScaleFactors.cc` -- [here](https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET/blob/RA2b_V12_v0/src/checkScaleFactors.cc)

Because photons need to be cleaned from AK8 jets, there is a dedicated piece of code to create histograms for checking ABCD yields in the photon control region. This is something that needs to be improved to avoid mistakes due to upkeep costs. The code is `ALPHABET_photon.cc` -- [here](https://github.com/awhitbeck/boostedHiggsPlusMET/blob/RA2b_V12_v0/src/ALPHABET_photon.cc)

compile code with:

```bash
make ALPHABET
make ALPHABET_photon
```

#### B-hadron flavor fits

To produce the b-hadron flavor fits, you should first run the `plotObs_*_baseline.cc` code to produce all of the input histograms.  E.g. for the photon control region:

```bash
make plotObs_photon_baseline
plotObs_photon_baseline

make flavorFit
flavorFit photon 0 # lead jet
flavorFit photon 1 # sub-leadjet
```
